I've never met somebody who wants to get
fatter and be weaker. So, I'm just going
to assume that leaner and stronger is
your intention. Now, everybody wants a
custom program for them. There's
definitely a lot of people who will say,
"Well, everybody's different. Find out
what's right for you." And it's really
weird because you can look at thousands
of studies and they have a test group
and a control group. They don't have an
array of 20 different groups because
find out what's right for you because
apparently when it comes to science
that's not really a thing.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on lots of
different stuff. Today I'm going to be
talking about the diet that you are
looking for. Now, why would I call it
that? Number one, I don't like labels.
So, like the carnivore diet, there's an
infinite number of definitions for what
that is. The flexible diet is really
just kind of falls apart into just eat
whatever the hell you want as long as
it's calorie deficit, which is clearly
ignores the fact that you're an organism
and you have hormones and different
foods trigger different hormonal
responses, which if applied incorrectly
could make you even fatter while you are
trying to do the right thing. So,
let's back it up and try and find out if
there is a style of eating that has the
greatest likelihood of your success.
Now, I'm assuming
your success will revolve around being
lean and being strong. I've never met
somebody who wants to get fatter and be
weaker. So, I'm just going to assume
that leaner and stronger is your
intention. Now, everybody wants a custom
program for them. And there's definitely
a lot of people who will say, "Well,
everybody's different. Find out what's
right for you." And it's really weird
because you can look at thousands of
studies and they have a test group and a
control group. They don't have an array
of 20 different groups because
find out what's right for you because
apparently when it comes to science
that's not really a thing. Also,
I think the find out what's right for
you just gives people sort of a copout.
There's just no logic or science behind
that.
When we look at new, I know that's going
to let a lot of people down. A lot of
people are really like like every once
in a while I I I see somebody post
something in response to something I've
said and it's like, well, I do better
with high carbohydrates. Okay. I mean, I
don't know what do better means. Like
maybe you have a better mood or
attitude.
I believe that. But
the research says what the research
says. And no, you don't. And and there's
a lot of psychological aspect to this.
So so much of what like there's a study
that shows that people who like believe
in low carbohydrate nutrition don't seem
to need carbohydrates. And then the
people who believe they do need it, if
they don't have carbohydrates, they will
not do well at whatever the athletic
endeavor is right after that. So
apparently it's more psychological than
anything. The
specific nutrition program that I feel
like is the closest thing to what people
are looking for is called and very
specifically called a proteinparing
modified fast. It's not a fast even
though it's called that and it
prioritizes protein. So what we've seen
and and I think it's very odd that if
you search for fasting on Google Scholar
or PubMed, chances are you won't find
proteins sparing modified fasting
research. You have to specifically
search for that string of terms in that
order for whatever conspiracy theory or
maybe it's just a coincidence. I don't
know. But seems to be difficult to find
unless you specifically search for it.
What this is is prioritizing
protein and the highest quality of
protein supplementation most
specifically. So essential amino acids
would be a great option. Maybe beef
protein isolate would be another good
option cuz these are the two proteins
that are most readily readily usable by
the body. So like you know whey protein
is 18% usable by the body. Vegetable
protein is only 9% usable by the body.
So you can have 250 gram shakes and that
really is only 9 g of usable essential
amino acids. Uh so that's a lot of stuff
to choke down and very little value. So
vegetable protein, no that's that's not
what you want. you get either the beef
protein or the essential amino acids and
then very lean meats. So, you want to
cut your fat low. You want as close to
no carbohydrates
or very low carbohydrates depending on
your level of comfort with that. And
then you want protein and you want to
get well beyond one gram per pound of
body weight. So, I'll go like you I
weigh 220 230 kind of bounce in there
and I'll I'll go all the way up to 300 g
of protein in a day and very low
carbohydrates, very low fats and I stay
incredibly well incredibly lean. I don't
I don't believe in going all the way to
shredded levels because your body is
just fighting you. So, you know, right
around for a man, 10% body fat. For a
woman, maybe 17% or or 18%. And you can
hover right in there by doing a couple
days of protein sparing modified fasts.
And then bump your fats up on, you know,
whether it's whatever the interval is
where you can stay really lean and feel
healthy and happy while at the same time
having enough energy to do all of your
workouts. because that's like you got to
feel good. You got to feel good to train
hard and training hard is the the top
priority. So try this in the context of
especially if you tried carnivore
before. I think some carnivore
promoters
have fats way too high. Like I see
people eating sticks of butter like
candy bars like man you don't need to do
that and that's not even really doing
you big favors. I I think that's just
sort of silly. Maybe it's a great
attention grabbing thing to do on video,
but yeah, you don't don't eat sticks of
butter. You protein is is what you're
after. And if protein comes with some
fats, okay. But for the most part during
this protein sparing modified fast, and
the way I do it, I I do protein sparing
modified fasts, one meal a day on
weekdays,
and then weekends I'll bump the fats up
to like 100 g. So 300 g of protein, 100
g of fats, maybe 20 g of carbohydrates,
add maximum. That's always sort of my
max. So it's not zero carbs, but it's
pretty low. And then do that and then
and then on the weekdays it might be 50
g of fats,
300 g of protein, and 20 gram of
carbohydrates.
Not a big change from weekday to
weekend, but that's and now that's
called fat cycling. So, we got the fat
cycling and then the protein sparing
sparing modified fast on the weekdays. I
think if you do that, you're going to
get exactly what you're looking for and
you're not going to need to struggle to
get it. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.